In designing the qubit measurement scheme, we focused on achieving short measurement cycles in combination with high-fidelity readout, as this accelerates testing of all other aspects of the experiment. To measure the outer qubit pairs, we use Pauli spin blockade (PSB) to probe the parity of the two spins (rather than differentiating between singlet and triplet states), exploiting the fact that the T0 triplet relaxes to the singlet well before the end of the 10 μs readout window. We tune the outer dot pairs of the array to the (3,1) electron occupation, where the readout window is larger than in the (1,1) regime (Extended Data Fig. 1). As the sensing dots are less sensitive to the charge transition between the centre dots, the middle qubits are measured by quantum-non-demolition (QND) measurements that map the state of qubit Q3(Q4) on qubit Q2(Q5) through a conditional rotation (CROT) (Fig. 1b)5,38. In this way, for every iteration of the experiment, 4 bits of information are retrieved that depend on the state of all six physical qubits. Iterative operation permits full readout of the six-qubit system.
Qubit initialization is based on measurements of the spin state across the array followed by real-time feedback to place all qubits in the target initial state. This scheme has the benefit of not relying on slow thermalization and that no access to electron reservoirs is needed to bring in fresh electrons, which is helpful for scaling to larger arrays. In fact, we had experimental runs of more than one month in which the electrons stayed within the array continuously. For qubits Q3 and Q4, real-time feedback simply consists of flipping the qubit if the measurement returned ∣↑⟩. Initialization of qubits Q1 and Q2 (or Q5 and Q6) using parity measurements and real-time feedback is illustrated in Fig. 1c. First, assuming that the qubits start from a random state, we perform a parity measurement that will cause the state to either collapse to an even (∣↓↓⟩, ∣↑↑⟩) or odd (∣↑↓⟩/∣↓↑⟩) parity (Methods). After the measurement, a π pulse is applied to qubit Q1 in case of even parity, which converts the state to odd parity (feedback latency 660 ns). Subsequently, we perform a second measurement, which converts either of the odd parity states to ∣↑↓⟩. Specifically, when pulsing towards the readout operating point, both ∣↑↓⟩ and ∣↓↑⟩ relax into the singlet state ((4,0) charge occupation). When pulsing adiabatically from the (4,0) back to the (3,1) charge configuration, the singlet is mapped onto the ∣↑↓⟩ state. If the qubit initialization is successful, the second measurement should return an odd parity (with typically around 95% success rate). To further boost the initialization fidelity we use the outcome of the second measurement to postselect successful experiment runs (Extended Data Fig. 1d). Figure 1d shows initialization by measurement of the first two qubits. The first readout outcome (blue) shows Rabi oscillations controlled by a microwave burst of variable duration applied near the end of the previous cycle (see Methods for more details). The second readout outcome (green) shows the state after the real-time classical feedback step. The oscillation has largely vanished, indicating successful initialization by measurement and feedback.
The sequence to initialize and measure all qubits is shown in Fig. 1e (see Extended Data Fig. 2 for the unfolded quantum circuit). We sequentially initialize qubit pair Q5 and Q6, then qubit Q4, then qubits Q1 and Q2, and finally qubit Q3, using the steps described above (for compactness, the steps appear as being simultaneous in the diagram). In order to further enhance the measurement and initialization fidelities, we repeat the QND measurement three times, alternating the order of the qubit Q3 and Q4 measurements. We postselect runs with three identical QND readout outcomes in both the initialization and measurement steps (except for Fig. 5 below, where readout simply uses majority voting). After performing the full initialization procedure depicted in Fig. 1e, the six-qubit array is initialized in the state ∣↑↓↓↓↓↑⟩. In all measurements below, we initialize either two, three or all six qubits, depending on the requirement of the specific quantum circuit we intend to run. We leave the unused qubits randomly initialized, as the visibilities decrease when initializing all six qubits within a single shot sequence (Extended Data Fig. 3). When operating on individual qubits, the initialization and measurement procedures yield visibilities of 93.5–98.0% (Fig. 2e). To put these numbers in perspective, if the readout error for both ∣0⟩ and ∣1⟩ were 1% alongside an initialization error of 1%, the visibility would be 96%.